First pass at a guide for compiling macros to augmentations. (#1973)
dart-lang/language: working/macros/feature-specification.md

[modules]: https://github.com/dart-lang/language/tree/master/working/modules

A Dart implementation can enforce this restriction by organizing a program into
**library cycles**. The build package [already does this][build lib cycle]. A
library cycle is a set of libraries containing import cycles. If two libraries
are not in the same cycle, it is guaranteed that there is no cyclic import
between them.

### Ideal compilation process

Here's a (non-normative) illustration of how a Dart implementation could compile
a Dart program containing macro applications:

#### 1. Break the program into library cycles

> Starting at the entrypoint library, traverse all imports and exports to collect

Author: I intended those to be covered by "imports", but, yes, called those out explicitly.

been compiled. Also, any types or other declarations used by that cycle have
either already been compiled, or are defined in that cycle.

[strongly connected components]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strongly_connected_component

#### 2. Compile each cycle

Go through the library cycles in topological order. For each cycle, compile all
of its libraries. First, merge in any hand-authored library augmentations into
their libraries. At this point, you have a set of mutually interdependent
libraries. They may contain references to declarations that don't exist because
macros have yet produce them.

Collect all the metadata annotations whose names can be resolved and that
resolve to macro classes. Report an error if any application refers to a macro
declared in this cycle.

**TODO**: The above resolution rules may change based on
https://github.com/dart-lang/language/issues/1890.

#### 3. Apply macros

In a sandbox environment or isolate, create an instance of the corresponding
macro class for each macro application. Pass in any macro application arguments
to the macro's constructor. If a parameter's type is `Code` or a subclass,

> convert the argument expression to a `Code` object.

Author: Good call. Done.

as augmenting declarations. If a macro adds members to a type, then the type is
added to the augmentation library as an augmenting type, and the members are
added into that.

**TODO**: How are name collisions from private declarations handled?

The `Code` objects representing the signature and body of the declaration is
serialized to Dart source. `Code` objects created from strings are inserted
verbatim into the augmentation library. It's up to the macro author to take
care when using unqualified identifiers in string-based `Code` objects.

**TODO**: Do we want to find identifiers in string-based `Code` objects and
implicitly scope them somehow?

Instances of the `Identifier` class have special serialization. An import for
library that the identifier resolves to is added to the augmentation with a new
unique prefix identifier. The `Identifier` name is then serialized as a prefixed
identifier for that prefix. (A more sophisticated implementation could reuse
imports when multiple identifiers resolve to the same library, and may choose to
omit the prefix entirely if the resulting identifier will still resolve
correctly.)

> This augmentation library is written on disk in some implementation-defined

Reviewer: I think that probably only the analyzer will actually write this to disk? Or possibly the CFE would in certain modes, but not others?

```suggestion
This augmentation library may be written on disk in some implementation-defined
```

Author: Yeah, good catch. Applied locally.
